h1. codeigniter-paypal-ipn

h2. Overview

codeigniter-paypal-ipn is a CodeIgniter library for working with the PayPal IPN (Instant
Payment Notification) service. The library acts as a listener for the PayPal IPN service
and logs the orders to your database (the release version depends on Doctrine 1.2). 

h2. Description

This library focuses on the "post-payment" workflow, i.e. the processing required once
the payment has been made and PayPal has posted an Instant Payment Notification call to
the IPN listener (aka your CodeIgniter IPN controller).

This library handles:
* Validating the IPN call
* Logging the IPN call
* Extracting the order and line item information from the IPN call
* Interpreting PayPal's payment status
* Storing the order and line item in the database

All pre-payment functionality (e.g. posting the checkout information to PayPal) and custom
post-payment workflow (e.g. sending emails) is left as an exercise to the reader.

h2. Dependencies

The initial release version depends on Doctrine (tested with 1.2.3). If you are not
using Doctrine with CodeIgniter already, I highly recommend it - see the CodeIgniter
guide, "Using Doctrine with Code Igniter":http://codeigniter.com/wiki/Using_Doctrine_with_Code_Igniter/
for more details

h2. Installation

Download all of the files from the doctrine1.2 folder and deploy them into your CodeIgniter
installation following the same folder structure as found in GitHub. To create the MySQL tables
required by codeigniter-paypal-ipn, run the SQL file found in the sql folder against your db.

h2. Usage

An example of how to use codeigniter-paypal-ipn can be found in controllers/example.php

h2. Credits

This library is inspired by:
* Ran Aroussi's "PayPal_Lib for CodeIgniter":http://aroussi.com/ci/ (which I used for some time before writing my own)
* Peter Butler's original PayPal IPN Controller for CakePHP:http://www.studiocanaria.com/articles/paypal_ipn_controller_for_cakephp (for giving me the idea to save the orders in the first place)
* @webtechnik's CakePHP-PayPal-IPN Plugin:https://github.com/webtechnick/CakePHP-Paypal-IPN-Plugin (for the really tidy configuration settings)

h2. Disclaimer and Warning

The author Alex Dean does not accept any liability for any processing errors made by
codeigniter-paypal-ipn, or any financial losses incurred through its use.

In particular, this library does *not* fulfil the PayPal IPN requirement to _"verify that the
payment amount actually matches what you intend to charge. Although not technically an IPN
issue, if you do not encrypt buttons, it is possible for someone to capture the original
transmission and change the price. Without this check, you could accept a lesser payment
than what you expected."_ (This verification step is out of scope for this library because
it would require integration with your product catalogue.)

h2. Copyright

codeigniter-paypal-ipn is copyright (c) 2011 Alexander Dean, alex@keplarllp.com

h2. License

codeigniter-paypal-ipn is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation,
either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

codeigniter-paypal-ipn is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along with
codeigniter-paypal-ipn. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


